This is Linux Unplugged, Episode 8 for October 1st, 2013.
Hi everyone, and welcome to Linux Unplugged, the weekly Linux podcast that slow cooks the
Linux topics of the day and then extracts sweet, juicy meat sauce called Linux Unplugged.
My name is Chris.
My name is Matt.
Hey there, Matt.
Welcome to Episode 8.
Hey, thanks for having me.
Now, we're both kind of, we have a Steam hangover because we've been talking and thinking
a lot about Steam, and then of course, even though the federal government shut down today,
the Jupiter Broadcasting crew is here, we're not shut down.
Never.
Takes more than that to shut us down.
Takes more than an, actually, I guess, inaction of Congress to shut us down, but it could
take an action at Congress, actually, now that I think about it, that could shut us
down.
Yeah, it could.
Well, so we've got some good follow-up from Sunday's Linux action show where we covered
Zone Minder and we also talked a little bit more about Steam, but also, though, we're
going to talk about that cloud today.
It actually just came up on the pre-show unprompted.
People have a little bit of cloud guilt because it's just so convenient.
Dropbox, Google Docs, Spotify, Google Plus images, that happens to be my current weak
spot.
It's almost like a drug of choice.
It's like, I feel like it solved my life problems, but at the same time, there's some fundamentals
that we have to take into consideration.
These are not free systems, these are not open systems, and even if you're a technically
advanced user, you often don't get to know of any of the implementation details, so it
essentially is a magic box, and that is bad for many, many reasons, so we're going to
talk about some of that today, Matt.
What do you think?
I think it's a good plan.
All right.
Well, very good.
There were just a few little less spots I wanted to follow up on.
We got some good threads going, and of course, what is... I don't know, Matt.
It seems to happen more than you'd expect.
A lot of times, one of the things we get the most feedback on is not what we made the main
topic of the show.
Of course.
At any time, the discussion happens to switch over to, oh, I don't know, KDE or GNOME.
That always seems to be a point of feedback.
We always tend to get... When it's me switching back to GNOME, then I always get this piece
of feedback.
He says... This is from Paul Furr on the Zone Minder feedback thread from the Linux
Action Shows episode.
He says, by the way, talking about my switch to KDE, one thing about KDE that always bugged
me is the lack of design... That's the next comment.
He says, much of the low-level things in GNOME are due to input from Red Hat.
There was a post a while ago from Aaron Saigo where he envisioned the GNOME guys focusing
on low stuff and low-level stuff and leaving the user experience layer to the QT technologies.
To me, the GNOME UI still makes no logical sense wherever.
Now, here's where he goes in for the killing blow, Matt.
Stand by.
Okay.
Chris also managed to make his KDE setup look rather hideous, so no wonder no one would
want to look at that for much longer.
Oh!
Oh, wow.
I see him also blaming KDE for what most likely was the unstable and impractical Fiddler's
distro, Arch, wrecking his configuration.
Last time I checked, I've never had my doorbell ring and had a distro walk into my house and
wreck my stuff.
I've never actually experienced this.
Now, I have experienced something to where I may have installed something and I may have
wrecked my stuff, but I just want to put that out there.
Yeah, I'll tell you what I did.
I'll tell you how I wrecked it.
For those of you, I did wreck it, and for those of you who don't know, I made a big
switch over to KDE, and there was so much stuff I liked about it.
Right.
So, things that actually kind of affect my daily workflow because I encode video files
over network NFS shares, and actually SFTP shares, and that would be like Dolphin doesn't
mount a directory when you browse it on the web.
It does like this fancy Dolphin virtual file system, whereas like Thinar and Nautilus,
or files, actually they put that sucker in a.gvs folder, and Bob's your uncle.
You can go get it if you want to.
And then that makes it like Handbrake works with it, and that makes a bunch of other programs
work with it.
Yeah.
It just doesn't in KDE.
I would agree with that.
I would even go so far as to say my only real honest-to-God hang-up with KDE that really
gets my goat is the sound issue, and I know that a lot of you guys don't experience that,
and that's totally okay.
I get that.
But outside of that, in many ways, KDE is more attractive to me than the alternatives.
You've lived this sound problem with me, though, and I got to say, this is a problem for me
because I have, it turns out, a sound board, right?
There it is, and that sound board is powered by a Linux box, and that Linux box has multiple
sound cards in it.
It has an HDMI sound out, it has two audio jack-out ports, and it also then has a USB
sound deck.
That's what I use for the sound board, and it just happens to be in KDE that it doesn't
seem to be when I switch the sound device that it actually switches, right?
Right, right.
Exactly.
And also with KDE, something I think a lot of the chat room has touched on, and this
is certainly true, that it always feels like it's going to be better in that next release.
We're almost there, just need that one tweak, oh, we broke that other thing, but that's
okay, we got this new feature, let's get excited.
It always feels like we're two steps forward, one step back in a lot of ways.
That's true.
And to be fair, I totally respect the technology in KDE, the integration, the fact that it
let me just create anything I wanted, and I went for a traditional task bar, system
tray, menu launcher UI.
I thought, let's go back to what Windows was doing for 25 years and see if maybe they were
on to something, or CDE, let's go back to CDE, basically, and just kind of do a very
traditional desktop.
Of course, that's what he's saying, look hideous, I don't know.
I will come back to though, the problem is that what I might call instability, you could
also call unexpected behavior.
So for example, Dolphin not mounting a share, the sound system not actually switching when
I make the switch, and then the third, this is the thing that bit me, and this is the
main reason I went back to GNOME, is Matt, you recall back during the show when I lost
my KDE config, right?
I do remember that, I do remember, yes.
And I ended up having to nuke my.kde4 directory and kind of starting from scratch.
So this time around, I broke it again, and I mean, I know I did this, and I acknowledge
I did this, and I kind of feel like it should not be this easy to break, and I'm trying
to remember the exact command, so mind the dinging as I bring it up here.
So I ran the command Plasma Desktop under GNOME, because I was working on a segment
about widgets for the GNOME desktop, because there used to be a whole bunch of options
to get a photo slideshow on your desktop, and there's of course Conky, but there used
to be a whole bunch of things that they've all basically been abandoned.
And I was working on a little spotlight thing I was going to do for last, where I was going
to show you how you could take some of the great KDE Plasma widgets and actually run
them in GNOME, and it works just fine.
And to do that, you run the Plasma Desktop command.
That starts up the Plasma Desktop shell, and then you just add widgets like you would
in KDE, and you pick your widgets.
Super straightforward.
So I logged into GNOME just to play with it, to do a little segment on it, and when I ran
that Plasma Desktop command under my GNOME session, when I logged out of GNOME and logged
back into KDE, everything was gone.
It was back to a fresh install of KDE.
You know, that sucks, because I mean, that would be a real disappointment, because then
you essentially have to live in a world where you've got to have some recursive backup of
your KDE directory.
Right.
I mean, snapshot or something, right?
Yeah.
No way.
That's not, that's not, it's just, I know I told myself I was going to do that, but
then I decided instead of, you know, instead of worrying about something like that, I'll
just reinstall if something happens.
And it turned out to be, that doesn't really work, because you've got worked configs.
It's not going to happen.
And I was like, this shouldn't happen.
And you know, for example, I have ran Nautilus, or files, under KDE, Plasma Desktop, you know,
numerous times.
And like, all of the Nautilus icons will show up on the desktop, and you know, you get the
Nautilus browser, and it's full on, it'll even change the background.
It's full on Nautilus is now controlling the desktop under KDE.
That doesn't bork my whole, my whole GNOME config.
I don't lose all my GNOME settings.
I don't, all my GNOME extensions aren't wiped out when that happens.
I mean, you know, that to me, maybe I shouldn't have done that.
I admit that maybe I shouldn't have done that.
But to me, even if I, worst case scenario, the expected result was not to lose all of
my config.
I don't know if maybe something got, it could have been anything.
I didn't even, I have not even looked at the folder.
It could have been permissions.
It could have been anything.
I just thought, on principle, that's ridiculous.
Plus, you know, he even stated, actually that was our next commenter, which I wanted to
touch on.
Also, this struck me about GNOME, is, and this was Donnie Kesson, Donnie Eisen, Donnie
Eisen.
He said, he says, by the way, he feels that I'm going to be back to KDE.
But he sings, one thing that KDE has always bugged me is a lack of design philosophy.
And this echoes my sentiments exactly.
And I think what this comes from is I didn't come to Linux from Windows or DOS, right?
I came from the Mac and then later on OS2.
I came from a always graphical, I mean, like I went way back, I started like on, you know,
before then, but I mean, when I was actually like using a computer, when I had like a hand
me down computer, they were all Macs.
It was all Macs.
And about the time, you know, Jobs got out of Apple was about the time I stopped giving
a crap about Macs.
Exactly.
I wanted to play video games and load Linux, right?
Yeah.
There's all these new things and BIOS and all these things that I started getting into.
But even then, even then I did not run Windows, right?
I ran BIOS.
I ran OS2.
I ran whatever the only time I ever used Windows was when I was using somebody else's computer.
And that is true to this day.
And the systems that have stuck with me the longest are systems that had a great design
philosophy behind them.
And that is not to detract from what the KDE camp is doing, but they are just not crazy
enough to spend almost an entire release cycle focusing on the system menu.
They just can't bring themselves to do it because they're too pragmatic.
They're not crazy enough.
Whereas the GNOME project is crazy enough.
And that's the kind of crazy I like.
Well, for me, it always felt like that KDE was very much about the features.
The design philosophy was kind of a secondary nature thing to them.
I always felt like it was much more about features and how can we squeeze them in there
from top to bottom.
That's the way it always felt.
And for me, it's kind of like you think it's like give you everything and then if you want
to make something from that, do it.
But then it's like you never get there.
Well, and it always feels like it's been crammed on top of something.
I mean, like, again, it's pretty, but it's it's kind of like Homer Simpson designing
a car.
I mean, it just it feels very put together.
It sounded like a really great idea on paper, but then you actually watch it happen.
It's like it still looks nice, but man, I got menus coming out of the menus here.
It's just it's really chaotic.
I got really, really close on my last and I don't know.
I thought maybe you winced at the UI a little bit, but I had a new theme.
I thought you could see it in the last episode of the Linux action show.
I felt like, oh, I know the episode before that.
Yeah, I felt like I had, you know, if you get the right KTE apps and you have the right
theme that that that menu spew starts to kind of go away.
It's not totally gone yet, but it's a lot better.
What's so funny is it's so starkly different under Gnome.
It's just so dramatically different under Gnome that it's a bit of a jar.
But I'm almost thinking having fewer options and having the default options be right and
then having ways to go in under the hood when I need to is better.
That is my philosophy.
It's gotten it's basically turned into such a bad situation to where I can't get beyond
XSE.
I every time I try, I mean, I run Unity on an Ubuntu desktop just because that's what's
available.
But my main desktop is XSE.
Probably always will be.
I keep coming back to it because I don't, you know, you can sex it up six ways from
Sunday with a decent theme and it looks great.
I'm running it under Manjaro.
It looks good.
I'm very happy with it.
I don't need more than that.
Everything's where I want it to be.
I run everything from a launcher.
Here's the thing though is I would argue that in order to really happily use XSE, you rely
on a ton of technology that the Gnome project and other projects are.
Oh, absolutely.
So those desktops wouldn't really be fully, would not even be probably half as functional
without those parent projects happening.
I'm not saying like they're sharing maybe even like for example, like quite a bit.
Yeah.
No, there's no question that Gnome especially is a, I don't think has much to do with it,
but I think Gnome especially has a lot to do with it and that's fine.
I feel like if the Linux desktop, and I think a lot of people out there feel this way based
on emails that we've gotten where people are sort of adrift.
They're looking for the desktop that's right for them and there really isn't one on Linux
right now.
Gnome is getting in one direction.
KD is going in their direction.
Unity is going in their direction.
XSE is out in their own island and it's like none of them answer that perfect problem and
the real problem, I think the real challenge isn't going to be how does Unity compare and
all that stuff, but we really have to have a good answer to the Mac.
Because until Apple loses it and starts to iOS up the Mac, that's a full fledged desktop
operating system.
I'm not arguing any technical merits, but from a user on shopping, they've got a great
hardware offering and they got a great software offering to go together and that is a problem
that I think Gnome is closer to answering with and especially with its future integration
with lower level Linux services like SystemD and Wayland, I think Gnome has a better shot
of answering that question because it still allows you to take advantage of what's great
about Linux.
What Valve is taking advantage of Linux is the fact that it's this general technology
platform that doesn't have any stakeholders that can control it in one direction.
I believe Gnome and KDE are going to be the two main desktops that are pulling ahead that
allow you to retain that choice.
I feel like Gnome is going to be the right answer for the Linux side if they continue
to really embrace and integrate with this low level Linux technology.
I think that's going to be huge.
So for me, it's kind of like I look at the field and I say, well, the Mac doesn't meet
my requirements for my day to day computing needs.
Windows isn't a contender at all because Windows, I have all of the same complaints about Windows
that I have with my KDE experience.
And I would completely agree with that.
At the end of the day, I mean, there's Cinnamon, there's Pantheon, there's all these types
of the elementary Pantheon thing into the mixture.
I don't think there's any – I think the problem is that there's not going to be
any one solution for everybody.
And it's where OS X people say, oh, well, I like OS X because I like the whole package
and even to some degree people probably say the same thing about Windows.
I think with Linux is that we have so much choice, so many things to pick and choose
from that we do and really should be customizing a solution for ourselves.
Give me 10 minutes and I can make anything look like OS X.
I'm not going to have the level of integration that OS X has but I can theme anything.
I can slap a dock on there, throw some icons up, redo a tool or I'm good to go.
It's not rocket science.
But I think that as far as the level of integration, I don't know if we're ever actually going
to get there unless you start seeing a company become an all-in-one solution provider.
Until that happens, I don't think that it will ever quite come to that.
Okay.
So that would be the canonical unity answer, right?
Yeah.
I think what Gnome 3.12 and beyond, and 3.10 looks great, but I think it's really starting
in 3.12, they are saying here's your integrated, here's your fully integrated.
Okay.
So before system D, we had a warmed over version of the old Unix system.
I mean it really was like you took the old Unix boot up systems and you just applied
it to Linux.
System D is this whole new system that allows us to take advantage of brand new features
like cgroups in the Linux kernel that allow like Gnome, if Gnome is taking advantage of
that stuff, to resource limit applications, to sandbox applications, to stick them off
in their own areas, to do something which I don't even understand called better application
matching.
Yeah.
And all of this is like it's going to be, I think, this close to OS X integrated level
experience.
However, you get to pick if it's Fedora, Arch Linux, Gentoo, SUSE Linux, Mangero, whatever.
You get to pick whatever you want.
It doesn't have to be where what Canonical's answer is you're going to get all that stuff.
We might even manage to get you some of it sooner than those other guys, although right
now it's kind of a dead heat.
But we might even be able to deliver on some of this sooner, however it's a bit of an island.
And I think that negates the benefits of Linux and those benefits are what are those types
of general technology platform, nobody has a single interest.
And the only problem is when you have a completely integrated solution like that, you have that
single interest.
Well, that's the exact kind of thing that Valve didn't want any part of.
That's why they created Steam OS.
They could have just released a set of packages that you grafted onto an Ubuntu install and
said, here's a PPA, Bob's your uncle, you're done.
Use Ubuntu 12.04.
No, they said, here's Steam OS.
Because we're taking this general technology platform and we're going to bring up our little
pillar in that platform.
Canonical's going to bring up their pillar, they're going to do their own thing.
But Gnome, Gnome is going to work on any of the general technology platform distributions,
any of them.
You just use SystemD, you use Wayland and you have Gnome 3.12 and beyond and you've
got essentially the same exact desktop experience.
You set the clock the same way on every single system now.
It's no longer these back end scripts that detect which version of Linux you have and
which distro and then it sets the clock, no, you just issue this command.
And it's, I think, going to be this grand new future.
I think KD is going to be there too.
I just think maybe Gnome's going to be there first.
I don't know, maybe not.
I don't, yeah, I hate to say it, but I think the really important underpinnings are working
better under Gnome than they are with KD.
So I think from a usability out of the, you know, once you get past the visuals and you
just kind of actually use the desktop, I think Gnome's ahead of the game in that respect.
No question about it.
So Bear454 in the chat room says, you know, don't you kind of see Steam as that, they're
that single interest that's, they're, I think.
Now they're niche interest.
Right.
I think they take the general platform and they build their product on top of it, just
like Android has been built on top of it.
You can have these super deep and tall vertical integrations that are, you know, Android,
for example, but it still moves the whole overall platform forward.
And I, even canonical, even what they're doing, well, I mean, yeah, even canonical, they know
what they're doing, you know, honestly, I don't know.
It's not like when Apple took free BSD, right?
I mean, it's not the same.
There's still more benefit because of the GPL.
There's still more people benefiting from it.
I don't know.
This is, this is a, this is a topic that it just, you know, the comments in the subreddit
kind of got me going down and he continued, Donnie, as Aaron did, he said, Gnome is becoming
beautiful and usable with every release.
After giving 3.10 a try for some time, I'm back on KD for a number of reasons.
Gnome should be usable without extensions.
Yeah.
Totally agree.
I counted.
I'm using 20 extensions right now.
It is crazy because people in the chat room and in the mumble said that I'm using one
or two.
I'm using 20.
Uh, that's, I, okay, users shouldn't have to worry about installing extensions to get
basic functionality.
No one uses or supports Gnome message tray.
It's not been a success in two to three years and nobody is ever going to accept it.
When Chrome launched an app launcher in Linux, you are left in this terrible fight between
Gnome and other developers where they only get to, where users only get to suffer.
Dropbox is not going to change for Gnome.
Skype is not going to change for Gnome.
Hell, Gnome apps like Banshee or Rhythmbox have not switched to Gnome message tray.
I do not want to put all my eggs in the Gnome basket because they will probably remove an
important feature that you're used to without notice or reason.
I find it really hard to use Gnome on big screens because Gnome wants you to use full
screen apps.
It tells you something like, it tells you something when Red Hat was not confident to
ship Gnome 3's interface to enterprise customers after funding it for so many years.
So this part, the part that he touched on here where he's like Skype isn't going to
change, Dropbox isn't going to change for Gnome, these guys aren't going to redo the
way their applications are written.
Not in these current releases, maybe in the future they will.
Whereas like KDE, the notifications are way better, the message tray thing is a lot better
in KDE.
I just honestly, I don't see, okay, I mean Skype has gotten a lot better about adapting
and changing ever since, oddly enough, since Microsoft bought them out.
But I think Dropbox and Skype, I think their approach to it is like, look, we slapped you
up a Linux release, this is how we're going to do it, like it or don't use it, tough,
we don't care.
Your numbers aren't impressive enough for us to care in their eyes, I'm not saying they
are or they're not.
So I think from that perspective, yeah, I think that Gnome is definitely kind of biting
the boot on that one.
But I think at the end of the day, Gnome's got the extension problem, KDE's got the
audio problem, I'm using another desktop and I just don't care.
I get the benefits of Gnome without the crap.
That's true, that's the nice thing about XFC.
I'll give you a ding on that.
So I will just wrap it up and say, you know, elementary OS has the same problem.
Elementary OS has a very specific design philosophy, the way they want things and that's one of
the reasons they have to go create a bunch of the apps on their own because they can't
get people to adapt to their philosophy.
I think as new releases of Skype come out, maybe they'll support Gnome, you know, Pigeon
supports the Gnome notification area and dude, it is so cool.
When I get an instant message, a little, just a little thing hovers up at the bottom of
my screen and if I click it, it then automatically extends up where I can read the whole message
and I can reply to the message right there in the notification, just hit enter and it
sends it off.
I don't have to alt-tab to a different window or anything like that, it's actually, when
it works, it's a really great system.
But you know, yeah, these guys have to, one more thing, I don't think it likely that the
Gnome team is going to remove any major feature all of a sudden and I think you have to look
at things like, they're not calling it fallback.
They're kind of twitchy, I don't know man, they're pretty twitchy.
I think it's more like they nuked and paved and now they're rebuilding one thing at a
time.
Yeah.
Okay, I'll give you that.
And do we have, I don't know of anything major that's launched in the Gnome 3 series that
has been removed.
Things have been changed, like they have a big change coming for the middle click and
all that kind of stuff.
Sure.
I don't know.
Which is, yeah, stuff like that's kind of big.
It'll be interesting to see how it all pans out and I think in the end it will all pan
out to do what it needs to do, but you know, it is a little scary living in the Linux space
because something like Skype or something like Dropbox that we use and rely on, at any point
they may be like, you know what, we're done.
You know what, Matt?
You just nailed it.
Let's flush this topic down because that brings us to the next spot, I think, in this week's
show.
This is where we'll probably bring the mumble guys in.
Wait for the finish.
There's the finish.
Three flush production.
I think you've nailed it.
I mean, we are so often victims of these cloud providers.
So this week, Google announced what looks to be a really fantastic HTML5 creation tool,
like a point and click frame based creation, something like early days of the macro media
creators.
Really looks super impressive.
I couldn't tell you, Matt, they only made it available for Mac and Windows.
Not available for Linux, right?
You mentioned Dropbox.
This is a service that has, if you've used Dropbox for a long time, there was a period
of time where the Dropbox client introduced a bug where it would then duplicate everything
in Dropbox, and then also there's a period of time where it wiped everything in your
Dropbox.
I've lived through both of those.
So the cloud services propose a big problem, and I want to zoom out before we talk about
that because I think there's a bigger problem here, and I want to get some of your insights
on this because you've had a roommate for the summer.
I think cloud computing offers us a future where we have to analyze a few fundamentals.
It's not just about crazy NSA conspiracy theories and things like that.
There's a few questions I want to ask.
So let's talk about that.
But before we do, I want to thank this week's sponsor, and that is Ting.com.
Ting is mobile that makes sense, my friends, and let me tell you, Ting's average monthly
rate, $21.
Now here's how that's even freaking possible.
One of the great things about Ting is it's pay for what you use.
At the end of the month, Ting is going to take all of your minutes, your megabytes,
and what else you got?
You got your, nope, just Ting megabytes, you got your text messages, no hidden services,
so they're not going to add those up because that's not in there.
Let's see, creepy sales guys, no, they're not going to add that up there because that's
not in there.
So I think it's just messages, megabytes, and used minutes.
And they just put all that at the end of the month, and they calculate what bucket you
fall into.
So the average price is $21.
That's pretty good.
Now, the most exciting thing about Ting is no contracts and no early termination fees,
and when you buy a device, you own that device.
It's not a subsidized device.
I know all of our friends across the pond, they always give us a hard time about this,
like you silly Americans.
You buy all your phones on contract and pay more upfront, don't you realize what you're
doing?
Right.
Yes.
We understand.
We do, and we're still unlearning that habit.
Well, and Ting is helping with this.
That's right.
So if you go over to linux.ting.com, you're going to save $25 off a device from Ting,
and they've got a lot of great new devices.
Note 3 is coming, Matt.
Now, don't get jealous because the Note 2 is still good.
That's the phone Matt rocks.
Loving it.
The one I might recommend people take a look at though is the Moto X, take a gander at
that, or the HTC One.
The HTC One spec-wise is still pretty competitive, and those front-facing speakers are no joke,
especially if you're a podcast listener, which I suspect you might be.
They are as good as like a Bluetooth soundbar or an external soundbar that you might get,
or nearly as good, and it's all built into the phone, so you don't have an extra piece
of gear you have to carry around.
So I really like that, and I've been using it to listen to audiobooks.
I've been using it to play podcasts.
I'll even listen to music.
It's surprisingly good even for music, and games too.
It's great for games.
So the HTC One, I really like that, plus it's got a fantastic design.
It's built really tight.
It really feels good in the hand, and one of the things that Ting is doing right now
to make...
Actually, I think this is sticking around forever.
I think crazy Ting is going crazier, Matt.
They're making early terminations a little less of a sting.
So Ting now has an ETF relief program.
They'll save 25% off your ETF.
That's up to $75 per device, so here's what you do.
When you're ready to switch to Ting, and remember, the sooner you switch, the sooner you start
to save, you browse your device options, pick your device, and activate it.
You can activate it through their website, super easy to do, or if you'd like to call
one of their customer reps, you can call them at 1-855-TING-FTW.
And a real person, the phone might ring one or two times, I can't tell you that, but what
I can tell you is a person will answer that phone, boom, and then you can actually ask
them a question.
Boom!
1-855-TING-FTW, 8 a.m. through 8 p.m. eastern time.
So once you've gotten that phone activated, although you just go to the Ting, linux.ting.com,
man, everything you can, Matt, you activated your phone through the Ting website, right?
Oh, it was super simple.
You just, wham, bam, thank you, ma'am, you just get in there, get it done.
Please, I've activated like three phones, I got it down to like three minutes, man.
I get on that site, pop, pop, pop, and I've got that phone activated, I'm ready to go,
plus I'm managing the awesome dashboard.
Once I've completed that action, you just fill out a little form, fill out that form,
you send it to Ting, it says, hey, by the way, Ting, I had an ETF for canceling my contract,
could you help me out, Ting?
Hey, Ting, by the way, could you help me out?
Hey, Ting.
And you know what Ting will say?
Yes, we can.
Up to 25% of your ETF can be relieved by Ting.
That's a great deal.
And that's sticking around.
And they've also got a bunch of great used devices if you want to pick up a device that
maybe you got somebody in the family that you want to put on the plan because you get
a pooled minute of, you can have unlimited devices, all shared pooled minutes, and the
device is only $6 per line.
So if you've got one or two phones that aren't gonna get used a lot, you don't have to worry,
and if you have a phone that gets used pretty heavily, then you only have to pay for what
you do end up using.
And if you've got somebody maybe that's got more text messaging, like a teenager, or somebody
that uses a lot more data like myself, that's much more easier to manage with the Ting plan.
You also have these refurbished devices.
They have this personal shopper where they can pick one up for you.
Things like the LG Optimus Black, $68 over at Ting.
The Sprint Airwaves, you can have a personal cell tower in your house.
And of course, one of my favorite Android phones ever made, the Samsung Nexus S, $80.
$80, no contract, and no early termination fee.
Samsung S3, $385, no contract, and no early termination fee.
Pay for what you use.
Love it.
I love that.
Plus, included hotspot and tethering with every Ting device.
How great is that?
There's no extra data plan, no shared family plan you have to be on.
They even accept a range of bring your own devices.
You go over to linux.ting.com, click on the devices link, check this out.
Not only can you bring your own device, you can sell your old device.
Between the early termination relief program and selling your old device and the absolute
amazing prices for Ting plans, never been a better time to start saving.
So go over to linux.ting.com and thanks to Ting for sponsoring Linux Unplugged.
That's right.
Gotta love the fact that they make switching easy.
Anybody does that is great in my book, you know?
That's awesome.
Gotta love that, guys.
I'm also a hermit and I don't like to talk to people, so the fact that the website works
nice is a benefit.
So let's talk about cloud computing.
You know, guess who got me thinking about cloud computing this week?
Who is that?
I'll give you a hint now.
See if you can place, he is famous.
Okay.
Do you have any guess yet?
Famous, huh?
He's famous.
Keep going.
Okay.
He uses a pretty low end computer on average.
I guess it's a he too.
I know.
Yep.
And we're talking famous amongst our people perhaps.
Yes.
Mr. Richard Stallman, when we asked him about cloud computing, his response was, get it
out of here.
And he said, by the way, it's negative in the freedom dimension.
He listed what he uses as his daily driver.
This is a quote from a recent interview, or just recently got kicked up in our subreddit
at least.
He said, I would ideally like to have a machine, oh, so he said, hey, Richard, what's your
dream setup?
Because he has a Yilong sub netbook, man.
It's like, it's not even a netbook, right?
He said, I'd ideally like to have a machine with the speed and memory of a laptop and
the display size of a laptop too, combined with the same freedom I have now on the Yilong.
Until I can have them both, freedom is my priority.
I've campaigned for freedom since 1983, and I'm not going to surrender that freedom for
the sake of more convenient computer.
I do hope to switch to the new model of Yilong with a 10 inch screen soon.
He said, and then he went on to talk about how he's not willing to sacrifice his freedom
in order to use hardware that has proprietary blobs or requires proprietary blobs and things
like that.
And I thought, okay, I just could never live like that.
But I look at what Richard Stallman's principled stance is with his computer hardware as perhaps
some launching off point for our discussion around using cloud services, because if you
are into Linux for any of the aspects of free and open source software, then you have got
to be challenged by the fact that a lot of these Linux desktops are just connecting out
to close sourced, proprietary, locked down cloud systems, a lot of times running on top
of open source hardware and software, open source software.
But the end result is a closed source proprietary app now.
And so you have to look at it.
So I ask you, Matt, is it hypocritical?
Here's my thing with Stallman, and I'm just kind of summarize it with this.
He's able to do this, and from what I was reading, his workaround is when he needs to
go to Google, he borrows another person's notebook.
So he doesn't always Wget his websites or however he does it.
He doesn't always use Emacs.
He has been known, and seriously, go and Google these guys.
He actually has been known to borrow other people's notebooks because it's not logging
him.
He maintains his privacy, but he doesn't mind putting the other person out there.
So it gets kind of fuzzy there for me.
I will say that he rolls hard.
He's hardcore.
I think that's great.
I mean, he definitely has dug his feet in and he feels serious about it.
But he is willing to go that far.
It definitely gets a little fuzzy for me.
I have a hard time taking that seriously.
So Mumblegroom, I want to ask you guys, what do you think?
Should a true diehard guy, he's got a GPL flag flying high, is it hypocritical for a
true freedom fighter to use cloud-based services like Google Docs, Gmail, Facebook, Twitter?
I mean, we had Identica come around for a while that was sort of like, here's an open
source version of this.
No one cared.
What do you guys think?
No.
No, he's totally fine using that type of stuff.
Really?
So you don't see a conflict in somebody who advocates for complete free and open source
software on the desktop using cloud services?
To me, it seems like software is software.
And if you need to have free software on your desktop, then you need to have free software
in your web services.
It would think so.
You would think so.
But you know, I mean, just because it's not open source or free software doesn't mean
that it's always technically bad software.
I mean, we use Google every day mostly.
I mean, most of us do.
But yeah, I think he's okay using Google and stuff like that.
His hypothetical user.
All right, so here's where my struggle comes from with the cloud.
It's multifaceted.
I can outline it really quickly.
The privacy issue, obviously, with the NSA revelations.
You never know if you're getting swooped up in some sort of mass surveillance sweep.
But you know, probably not likely.
I look at things like Google Reader as the go-to, but also just simple things.
Like Google Reader is an example of a service being taken away and shut down without any
user say.
But even something a little more micro, like the Gmail compose window, I vividly with a
passion hate that.
It actually completely breaks my particular workflow because you got to click on a stupid
thing and then click on another thing to get the subject line back and the CC thing.
And it automatically hides under this weird little button the previous thread, which I
often refer to when I'm writing my response.
I mean, in every single way that I on average in responding to emails, this new compose
message completely breaks it for me.
And I don't want it.
I turned it off for as long as I could, but then eventually one day they pushed out the
code to every single server and now I don't have that and I can never get it back.
And as somebody who's elected to use Google apps, I sure as hell regret that now because
I freaking hate that new compose window.
So it's not just about like a Google Reader service being turned off and then I go to
tiny, tiny RSS.
It's also about changes in that service that to me are about driving an alternative motive
than actually providing a good user experience.
So there's that aspect to it, but then you also have the aspect of performance things
that are on your own land perform better.
So using things like, you know, a local video server instead of streaming from Amazon or
Netflix likely means you could do a higher resolution file.
It'll start a little bit faster and nobody's keeping metrics on what videos you'd love
to watch.
Right?
This is very true.
And then lastly, because it's here on my land, there's less of a security issue, right?
I maybe don't have to use as massively complicated passwords because not everyone and their brother
can just log into it because most of these things I don't even open up a port for.
It's only on the land.
And so there's, I think, a higher security potential there.
And then lastly, the internet was built around connecting lands.
That is the fundamental nature.
It is not about consolidating and moving everything to the top.
It is about distributed networking.
It is about connecting large networks so they can share information between each other.
It is not about everybody being a bunch of dumb thing clients that connect up to the
Google master servers and which, by the way, I run in closed source offer, which yes, does
bother me.
So I look at the cloud as as bad from that standpoint, but I will also now pivot from
that and say, here's a whole nother reason why the cloud is awful and is going to doom
humanity.
I think that personally, the internet was supposed to originally be peer based.
And that's just because the way the protocols are made up.
Right.
Yeah.
I had a great time.
See, my look at it is I use the cloud up to a certain extent.
I just use like Gmail, stuff like that, YouTube, whatever.
All my pictures, all my personal stuff, I just keep backed up on external.
I never use Dropbox and all that stuff.
That being said, I don't have the terabytes of data I'm having to deal with like you are.
So I mean, like for me, like I can't get off the G plus sauce for the photos.
I love the fact that I just take some photos on my Android phone and they upload and then
it does some magic to make them look better.
It animates the GIFs.
It you know, selects the best faces like, man, that is just so handy when you want to
keep out when you just want to automatically pull out the good images and just be call
it a day.
That is great plus the design of the platform kind of leaves me needing a photo management
solution and so they kind of conveniently provided one that is kind of hard to put down.
You know, I don't want to really be putting all that stuff up there, but damn, it's just
so great.
But here's the bigger thing, you guys, and man, I want to I want to ask you a question.
You don't have to share anything more than you want to share.
You've recently had exposure just to a high school aged person.
Yeah.
Right.
And when I was in school, we had three classrooms packed full of computer nerds and then we
had one classroom was really the elites and some of us got like root shell access and
domain admin access to the early NT for domain like we were really like high level geeks,
right?
And this was in high school.
And then flashback like 10 or 11 years later, I went back as a contract worker to that same
school district and I found like they had totally like neutered all of the computer
classes and really generalized them.
They were, you know, office classes, really learning about Excel and right and we're learning
to type and they'd really watered it down.
And instead of like 30 super passionate nerds, there was three and only one of those three
even had a shell account.
And it was like that guy, yeah, he's he can help us out with a few things where I was
like back in my day, we wired the whole we wired all we wired the district with cat with
ethernet.
I remember what if it was cat three or five, but we wired the we were like we were I.T.
like the kids were so advanced.
We were I.T. and that's how I got my first job.
And now I look at the kids today and I think the damn kids on my lawn, I think they have
no idea of the context behind the screen.
All they know is how to operate what is on the screen.
And while yes, I have made the argument that this is natural, like before computers, there
was the radio and every kid knew how to build a radio and every there was radio kits that
were advertised in magazines and comics and you would get a kit radio.
Nobody knows how to do that anymore.
All right.
And there was like, oh, well, now we just buy radios.
It's no big deal.
Or cars.
Cars are another great example.
It's a huge part of our of our civilization and I have no idea how to do anything other
than I could probably maybe Google my way through changing my oil.
Right.
You know, as long as I've got Google under the car with me, I should be OK.
That see the computers, computers are so much more invasive.
Computers are in every aspect of our life.
It's not like radios and cars not understanding how computers work is like not understanding
that putting your finger in the electric socket can hurt you.
Computers run hospitals.
Computers run the government.
Computers run us.
Computers run everything.
And everybody has a computer in their pocket now.
And so to not know how that works is a way bigger deal than not knowing how a radio works.
It's a way bigger deal.
Well, there's a couple of things.
First of all, we were generationally brought up in the world and especially those before
us to where you learn to do things oftentimes out of necessity.
You get the bug.
You're excited about it and then you want to go learn how to do other stuff.
Because today with smartphones, not only are they not verbally speaking to one another,
they'll be texting one another from across the table.
I mean, it's terrible.
But in addition to that, it's – the phones pretty much do it all for them.
So if it's – and like to give you an example with my nephew, his world revolves around
YouTube and Facebook.
He really doesn't stop to rationalize.
There's an internet out there.
It's Facebook and YouTube.
Well, what am I going to – oh, and then I introduced him to Reddit and I'll never
see him again.
But I showed him that but I mean, it's like they don't have the ability, not all kids
but a lot of them.
I'd even go as far as to say probably the majority of them don't have the ability
to go out and want to learn beyond that because that's the environment they're brought
up in.
That's what we're working on here is we're working on basically undumbing down the kids.
I mean, that's kind of the whole thing and it's a task and it's a task you've got
to tackle early.
You nailed it when you said the smartphones, like the problems are solved.
I had to learn how to build an instant messenger server because I wanted an instant messenger.
I had – back in high school, I learned how to create a dial-up server so that way I could
get internet connectivity out in my home in the boondocks.
I had to solve these problems.
Starts with necessity and then after a while, it's kind of like, God, this is kind of cool
and it becomes an interest.
So here's where the problem is with cloud computing because cloud computing does this
to all of us.
Even those of us who are extremely technical, who could understand what they're saying,
we also have this dumbification given to us.
We are without any option by using Dropbox, I really have no freaking idea any of the
technical back ends.
I kind of get bits and pieces over the years and kind of construct a theory in my mind
of what it likely is based on how I understand technology works.
But most people don't even have that advantage and we're doing it to everyone and we're doing
it at both ends.
We're doing it at the client side and we're doing it at the server side and we're just
chewing in right to the middle and we're going to leave ourselves like in some sort of dystopian
Star Trek world where they come to the planet and the computers run everything.
Well, it's going to literally be like Voyager with the, what the hell do they call Kess
where she's part of the Oompa Loompas or some damn thing?
The O'Kompa.
Yeah, the O'Kompa.
I call them the Oompa Loompas, whatever.
Basically they have a caretaker, Google, or Facebook or whatever it may be and they're
basically taken care of.
And I think a lot of the causality for that comes from a combination of parents and schools.
Well, the parents figure, well, I'm busy doing my thing so the schools will take care of
this for me.
And the schools are like, honestly, we can barely keep our lights on so no, we're going
to make this as easy on ourselves as we can and do the very bare minimum we can because
that's how schools seem to operate nowadays.
And it's kind of a lose lose for the kid.
So yeah.
Mailholler in our chat room points out that people don't even know, this happens in all
aspects of life.
They don't even know where their milk comes from most of the time.
That's true.
That's very true.
And I, now there is still a world out there.
Or what's in your milk.
I mean, that's a serious, serious thing.
We switched to organic.
Both my wife and I, our cholesterol did a nosedive.
Yeah.
Seriously.
And why is that?
Because of the cows, you know, because where your food comes from, if they're, you know,
they're in taking products and things like that that have things you don't want in your
body, you're also in taking it.
There's a lot of considerations of knowledge.
I guess though, but there's still a market, there's still a world out there where you
can decide, I want to know what's in my milk and then go buy something else.
So maybe.
But it's a premium.
It's a premium market because there's not, because it's, it takes more work or more consideration
and the market's not high enough out there and it's more of a niche market so they can
charge more as we know from the gluten stuff or the anti-gluten stuff rather.
You know Matt, just to point out, you're completely right when you're saying it's the majority
of all teenagers that don't understand what's going on in the background.
Yeah.
It's sad.
I'm 19 myself and the only reason why I know so much as I do right now is because I kind
of was defiant and I was like, no, I want to know how this works.
Right.
Exactly.
Yep.
And I poked and I just kind of just got into it.
I think that takes an exceptional personality type.
It does.
It takes, it takes, it's almost, I would say it's the new A type personality.
There's the old A type to where you're just loud and proud and whatever, but I think the
new A type personality is someone that wants to take responsibility for their environment,
for their skill set, for their goals, for their future, for the whole thing and I think
that that's exactly what you did there.
You're 19 years old and you decided, wow, you know, I'm watching the sheeple around
me do their thing and it's like, well, I want to do more.
I want to do something different.
I kind of laugh when I see other people and they say, oh, Google crashed.
See, for me.
That's awesome.
Yeah.
It's got to do back to up thing, um, my phone actually is the one that got me into running
through the first place.
Oh, really?
That's cool.
But that's cool.
Yeah.
Because, um, back in the day I used to have the original, uh, my touch, like it was like
the second or third Android phone that came out and it was so horrible because T-Mobile
refused to update it to 1.6, I'm like, God, it's got to be a better way to do this.
And so I rooted it and I got it updated to 2.2, I believe, and it was just so much better
than I learned.
Like, wait, I can do this on my computer too.
Well, that's encouraging.
That makes me almost think that maybe there's a positive side to every negative.
In fact, the Android phone to get updated brought you into Linux.
I mean, that's, well, and it's kind of interesting.
Yeah.
I learned all this stuff from like XPA, like originally like those forums over here, like
those guys are amazing.
So.
That's cool.
Yeah.
It seems like it's, it's either going to be, uh, you know, intervention from a, uh, someone
that's an interested party or it's a, it's a pain point such as an Android phone that
it's just not going to cut the bacon.
Um, you know, it's kind of interesting to see how everybody kind of comes into their,
uh, into their own world, you know, I kind of look at it as like, I'm going to use these
cloud services until a really good, practical implementable, if that's a word, solution
comes along for me.
Like I need something to manage my photos in my network.
I really do.
Like my wife takes a jillion photos a day.
She's got like 500.
I mean, it's not that much, but it's going to be by, by mid next year, it'll be a 500
gig photo database.
You know, I've got a decent size and it's like, we need something that's free software
that is not, um, you know, like max specific.
So the problem is she's, she just loves iPhoto and, and honestly, every time I've tried to
get her to switch it to something, she's got a dozen valid points that I can't like, I
mean, you know, it's like, I know by the way, I kind of want to do a photo management segment
on that.
And then last, I think that'd be a good one cause I've, I've been, that's something I've
actually been working on.
Yeah.
Maybe we'll do that in the future.
My wife went to school for photography and of course lives in Photoshop and iPhoto.
So that would be interesting.
And she took some photography too.
And so she's, she's, she knows like, uh, she's going through a problem she has right now
where she's trying to pick the right camera because her camera is going out on her and
she happens to love this style of camera.
And so she's kind of at this spot where she's like, do I buy an older model with lower specs
that I know performs the way I like, or do I buy the latest thing and just learn to live
with it?
Kind of like I'm doing with Nome, right?
Yeah.
I mean, that's a tough one.
You've taken the other route.
You've gone XFCE and you're like, you know what?
I'm just hanging and I'm good.
And to me, I'm like, no, I'm going to go Nome, right?
So I've got the newer camera, you know, but I treat my computers the way my wife treats
her cameras.
Don't worry so much about the camera itself.
It's all about the glass and the technique.
That's where it goes.
So I know what happens in these point and clicks now is they have like a image processing
that they do and like they're adding like a orange to skin colors and things like that.
But see, Oompa Loompas.
Exactly.
I guess I just wanted to, I just wanted to maybe we'll just wrap up the whole cloud services
with, you know, my thought is, is I try to use cloud services as minimal as possible,
but you know, also use them responsibly and just, I look at it is if I have the technical
know-how and means to build my own solution, then I, the only thing that's preventing me
is time and laziness and I should exercise that ability and that right to do that.
So I do it.
I just plan, I think I'm going to continue this trend over 2014 of just moving everything
back home.
And as I, as I move something cool, we'll talk about it, you know, and when I solve
this photo problem, we're going to talk about it.
It might make your life a lot easier.
Yeah.
It's really tough.
It is, isn't it?
What are you a real, are you going to be a farmer to grow all of your own crops?
Are you going to use a drill to drill your own oil?
There's a lot of necessities that you just live to be thankful for.
That's true.
Yeah.
That we just totally take for granted.
And you use your own hydroelectric dam to harvest your own electricity.
I admit I, it's very hard to make your own fuel.
I have tried to move away from Dropbox now a hundred times and I have underestimated
how integrated, I have worked it with my workflow and so every, like I still, now I'm just half
and half.
I'm more than half and half, but I'm, I have like almost everything in BitTorrent sync,
but I still have like three or four applications and config files and stuff in Dropbox.
And it's like, oh yeah, I got to figure that out.
I got to figure out how to fix that, but I just haven't had time.
Matt.
All right.
Before we move on, I think we should probably read some emails and I'd like to hear people's
thoughts on the cloud stuff too.
So go ahead and send us your feedback.
You can tag Linux Unplugged in the contact form and it'll tag it just specifically for
this show.
I also have a link in the show notes.
I just grabbed it.
I was going to work it in because I was reading this this morning.
So the two things I read this morning where RMS is work set up and then also this ex Microsoft
privacy advisor, he said, I don't trust the company and he's, he switched only using open
source software.
And he says, I don't trust Microsoft now.
He said adding that only, he only uses open source software where he can examine the underlying
code.
He said he's told this to the, to the guardian.
So I'll link to that in the show notes if you guys want to read about that.
And I also have a link to the Richard Stallman set up in there.
He's also going to talk a little bit about what I was talking about where he uses other
people's computers on occasion.
Yeah.
Bear, Bear found the quote too.
And you know, I guess you could kind of say that's a loophole, but.
And I have no problem with it, but don't, you know, but where I get, where I get rubbed
the wrong way with it is when he gets the real, real, I'm just going to say it real
high and mighty about it, but yet he's still doing it, but he's putting someone else's
privacy at risk for his benefit.
You know, I'm not cool with that.
It would kind of be like, oh man, I don't want to get in trouble for saying this.
I just, I'm just going to say it'd be kind of like, it'd be kind of like if I went on
last and you know, we got, you and I got on our soap boxes about using anything but Linux.
How dare you use anything but Linux.
And then I go, I wrap up the day and I go edit that on a Mac, you know, and we all do
it.
And, but the difference is, is I don't recall you or I ever saying, Oh, you're using that,
you know, use what works for you folks.
And that's kind of my philosophy.
Even if you do use proprietary software on Linux, Hey, if that's working for you, that's
okay.
But you know, be educated about it.
I think that's the underlying thing that I would like to see Stallman talk more about
is more about the education and a little less of the finger wagging.
I guess maybe now is that's the best compromise, isn't it is as a technical user, we can try
to make ourselves as knowledgeable about the service as possible.
So educate yourself.
And then when, when it seems reasonable, like if you need the performance to improve security
and then improve privacy and you don't want the service to change on you, then when those
conditions are met and you feel like there's a good handoff, move it local and otherwise
just stay knowledgeable.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Be aware of what, what your stuff's doing.
And if you don't know, you know, that's a decision each person needs to make at that
point.
But yeah, I just have a real problem when we start getting real finger waggy at folks
and telling them what they should or shouldn't use, cause you know, it's different strokes
for different folks.
And I think we need to remember that.
It's also, I think let's keep in mind too, people in the community, people out there
in, you know, sometimes they can be a hard liner and then they go home and they're like,
oh well, yeah, can I borrow your laptop?
You know, you gotta keep in mind, sometimes everything.
I've seen this in the Microsoft camp.
I've seen Microsoft, I won't say who, but I've seen Microsoft employees and their kids
get frustrated trying to do things like connect to wifi with Windows 7 back in the early days
and, and, and shake their fist at their own company because, you know, and then go and
use something that does work like that.
Well, you've been to a Linux conference and seen like a ton of people show up with Mac
books.
Oh yes.
Right?
And there was a period of time where some of the core gnome developers were all using
Macs at this conference.
I was like, Oh, okay.
So it happens.
It happens.
Um, I go back to, to write tool for the right job and I think you've nailed it, Matt.
So, all right.
Very good.
All right.
So before we move into the emails, we've got a couple of emails I want to get to, including
a comment on the DRM aspect of steam and how we kind of glossed over that last week and
a new Archer reporting in with some tough questions.
But first I want to remind folks, we do have affiliate extensions and if you grab these
for your browser for Firefox or Chrome and we have even opera in the works, I, you know,
opera's opera's kind of man, they're coming back.
Opera next is out.
I got it right now on my arch box and uh, it, it's kind of, it's kind of great.
It's, it's not bad really.
Uh, of course it's not Firefox.
I'm, I'm putting all my effort in these days.
I had some browser issues, so I'm kind of doubling down on Firefox and I really wanted
to do, I really wanted to kind of highlight these browser extensions we have for Chrome
and Firefox because we had some recent modifications in the way that the Chrome browser reads the
oral that requires a reauthorization and that cost a big drop off and the timing is bad
because we're sort of ramping up for some big plans for 2014.
So I'm making a special plug.
If you'd like to support all of the shows on the Jupiter broadcasting network, go over
to the Jupiter broadcasting site, scroll down to the bottom and then down there we have
links for a bunch of sites and then at the end of that link list we have Chrome and Firefox
extensions.
You can grab those and then every site you shop at that we have support for, like Audible
and Amazon and Woot and Newegg, including multiple country versions.
Like a lot of times we only have the US country linked to the bottom, but we have other countries
in the extension.
Those will automatically be enabled when you shop at those certain sites.
We just added Woot.com for example, and then a portion of your shopping session is contributed
to the Jupiter broadcasting network, but it doesn't cost you anything more.
So while you're getting yourself something nice, you give us a little something and then
in the aggregate, it's very small, but in the aggregate it helps out quite a bit.
So we really appreciate that.
I want to remind you guys that now would be the time to activate that, especially as the
holiday season is approaching.
This is true and it's so easy to do.
I mean it's literally either install and or activate or update and it's passive.
You don't do anything extra.
Yep.
And we really appreciate it.
And they're open source.
Right.
You know why they're open source?
Why are they open source?
Because I figured if we're going to be loading software on people's computers, they have
the right to go see what it's doing.
And that is a good argument to have.
I think that's, and that's again, it's all about being educated.
That's awesome.
You know, I go back to something I kind of thought about, maybe we'd talk about today,
but it just didn't really seem to fit is I love BitTorrent sync and those guys have just
announced BitTorrent chat and it's a peer to peer chat system with no central chat server,
but it's all closed source.
Oh no.
It's super light on the details.
I just, you know, if you want me to trust it, that's the underlying problem with open source
stuff is that you become wildly successful.
Your open source project becomes your marketing arm and then you've got that closed source
stuff that basically makes you the money.
And I think that's kind of where a lot of these projects end up.
I see like Google's a good example of that.
They use lots of open source stuff, but they're making their money with the closed source
stuff.
They really are.
Yeah.
Like ads.
Well, okay.
Well, so yeah.
Okay.
I was going to get, that's actually, I was thinking we could actually have a whole show
about this because you know, Red Hat just had their 20 years and they're making a ton
of money, but maybe that might be a future topic.
Let's get to our first email, Matt.
And this is a subreddit thread.
It came in from Dexinox.
He says, so after six years of using GNU slash Linux, I have finally defeated my laziness
and I installed Arch.
My thoughts before Arch, better take a whole day off and prepare for some chill pills so
I don't give up halfway.
I like to have a few drinks and get ready.
Then after 30 minutes of installing Arch, his thoughts, what the?
Is that it?
Well, that was unexpectedly easy.
Even when I had network and bumblebee problems after install, I was able to solve it without
even looking at the Arch wiki or forums.
Wow.
Good job.
He says, I'm giving Arch a 10 out of 10 rating.
Can we really see why where it's users so passionate in all those flame wars?
I can see why users are so passionate in all those flame wars.
He's anymore than he asks if anybody else in the last crowd is using Arch for production.
And you know, I am actually using Arch for production.
Yeah.
I was going to say you use it for production.
I actually have an unused partition of Arch that is still there.
I just haven't done anything with it.
I would agree in that it really is not that hard to get set up.
I'd say probably the hardest part is honestly just kind of deciding what themes you want
to use and what desktop you're going to choose.
There's a lot of choices.
There's a lot of choices and I'd say that the customization part is probably the most
time consuming.
But yeah, the setup itself is pretty much just dirt, dirt, dirt, you know, just follow
along with the wiki.
But yeah, but for me personally, the customization thing, honestly, I'm just not that vested
into it.
I would almost rather have it done for me, you know, and that changes from time to time.
That is the XFCE user.
Hey, you know what?
Manjaro does it all for me.
That's true.
Manjaro makes it a damn nice looking...
I was in it for Pac-Man anyway, so it's like, eh.
They make a good looking XFCE setup.
So I thought I'd just add to anybody in the mumble room here, you guys, anybody here have
Arch like on a server in production somewhere?
I have it in the traditional production sense, like I use it to generate sounds and talk
to you guys and create showed stuff, so, and encode, I suppose.
And you know, I really have not been bit by this mythical, I don't know how long it's
been now, but I've had a few things happen here or there where I've had to restart, where
I had like a problem that like didn't fix until like maybe I updated the video driver,
I updated the kernel or something, and I'd have to restart before things are right.
So I think maybe under Arch I restart more than I did under other Linux's.
Could be.
But I don't think other than that I've had any surprises.
It doesn't sound like anybody in the mumble room is using it in production.
I know it's all because everybody in here is a bunch of Red Hat Enterprise users.
Right, exactly.
No, they're all using Windows.
No, I think for myself, I think as long as you're, whether it be any type of rolling
distro like that, but you know, Arch or Benjara or whatever, read the release docs every time
there's an update, you're fine.
You know what's going on.
You know what I say?
You know?
Sousa Enterprise Edition.
There you go.
That's what I say.
Play it safe to a fault.
Yes.
If you really like Sousa Enterprise.
It depends on the venue.
In the right venue, it's awesome.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, if you're going to say, hey, Chris, you got to load CentOS or Sousa Enterprise.
Oh, yeah, that's no question.
What's going on with Sousa Enterprise?
Yeah, CentOS makes me want to punch things.
I hate that.
Yeah.
But we love you guys.
All right.
So John wrote in, he said, hi, Chris and Matt, I have some comments from last week's Linux
Unplugged.
He said, there was feedback where one user was looking for an iTunes replacement but
felt stuck with the program due to buying a lot of content attached to that dang DRM.
The discussion also turned into the convenience of getting content via file-shared networks.
But the problem is that such networks are labeled as cheap pirates.
Users of such networks are labeled as cheap pirates.
In reality, most of them do not get access to the otherwise denied.
My wife and I are fans of British television, with the most recent favorite being Downtown
Abbey.
As a viewer in the US, the only real legal way to watch the show is to wait six months
after the UK version airs on PBS.
Due to this time restriction, it forces many users to download the UK version from file-sharing
sites if they want to keep up with the show.
Are these people considered bad if they want to consume content and work around the restrictions
of selfish corporations?
Or are we meant to be punished?
A few months back, there was a story about GameStop requiring a critically acclaimed
and unfortunately very rare Wii game called Xenoblade Chronicles.
The game was never meant to be bought over in the stateside, but when it was, GameStop
became the only reseller and had a limited run.
As with many types of these games, the value was high on auction sites, and many gamers
who wanted it paid a high price.
All of a sudden, large amounts of games were available at GameStop were sold at $90.
The issue with these copies is the employees were forced to remove the plastic and sell
it used to no longer be forced to pay a $50 MSRP.
From that perspective, GameStop was being unethical against the consumer, and if the
consumer wanted to experience the game, they would have to turn to piracy to play it or
at $90 for a new version of the game.
So in a nutshell, there are many people who turn to piracy to do it as a way to get around
unfair restrictions on the consumer and are not just being cheap and do not care about
art.
You know, it's interesting because I reflect on the first time I pirated TV, it was Star
Trek Enterprise.
Shocker, right?
Yeah.
I totally saw that coming.
No.
I thought it was Downton Abbey.
I lived in an area where our local affiliate, UPN11, made a big stink about going HD, and
they had Enterprise.
And Enterprise season three was also recorded with HD cameras, and I thought, and this was
still season two when they made the announcement, and then when the season three stuff came
out, I was like, okay, I got to do this.
So I thought, all right, well, KCBW, whatever it was, I can't remember, KCBW, whatever,
they're going to get HD TV, Enterprise is in HD.
Nothing on TV is more important to me than Enterprise, and I've been thinking about
getting an HD TV anyways.
This is really before even 1080p was big on the market, like 720p, and I paid like $5,500
for my HD, and I was a single guy, so I had some money to burn, and I still have the TV
to this day, but nothing was in HD, nothing.
There wasn't Blu-ray players, right?
I don't even think the 360 with the HD DVD drive had come out yet.
No, I don't think it did, because I remember when that happened, and I kept thinking, well,
that'd be nice, but yeah, and I blew my money all on the surround sound system I had at
the time.
Yeah, yeah, I inherited the surround sound system, so I saved money there, so I just
needed the HD part, and then, about three months after I got the setup all in, the local
cable channel, local affiliate announced they were canceling their HD migration, which of
course, yes, they eventually migrated.
So I just said, you know what?
Screw it.
Oh, and also, at this point, Syfy had launched an HD, but my local cable provider didn't
have Syfy in HD, and I was watching Battlestar Galactica, I think, or something.
Yeah, I think it was the new BSG.
So I was just like, I'm going to keep paying for the cable service, but screw these guys.
They told me I was going to get HD.
I went and bought a TV to watch my Enterprise in HD.
I'm going to watch Enterprise in HD, and it's not that I wasn't paying for the TV service.
I just also pirated it.
And I think that's what a lot of people have to really come to grips with when they wrestle
with the morality of something like that, is that a lot of stuff like that, even DVDs
to a certain extent, Blu-rays, whatever they may be, you're almost leasing or being lent
the contents.
You may own the disc, but do you really own the content?
According to the movie industry, you don't own squat, because they do as they damn well
please.
And so that leaves us with that moral dilemma.
How do we approach this?
And I think that more and more people are thinking, you know what?
Piss on you.
I bought this.
I'm going to watch it my way.
Somebody contributed my funds to it.
The other thing, too, is I think people are savvy enough to realize that it is not the
content creator.
Because as a content creator, as somebody who's making a show, you want as many people
as possible to see that, because that's why you're making it, right?
That's going to get you renewed next season.
Right.
But then these corporations who make profits based on a limited quantity model, and instead
of taking advantage, like our type of show takes advantage of a widely distributed model,
right?
It's a completely different approach.
Whereas their model takes advantage on limiting quantity on purpose, so that way they can
sell it to advertisers at a massive premium.
At a massive premium.
And when you go outside that system, you devalue what they can charge the advertiser.
And the thing is, I think a lot of us are, maybe we don't fully understand this paradigm,
but we're savvy enough to know that it's the middlemen that are getting screwed and not
the creators that are getting screwed.
And the middlemen are screwing the consumers.
And I think you totally nailed it there.
I think also the other issue, too, is that we're not dealing with gatekeepers.
We are the gatekeepers.
And with TV content, you know, someone creates this really great show, Under the Dome is
a great example.
And, yeah, sure, it's available for Amazon Prime folks to enjoy on Amazon and whatnot,
but it's also being distributed through television, and that happened because the gatekeepers
that the creators of the show made the contract with allowed that to happen.
And when you give control of something like that, you as a content creator really are
left getting what they allow you to get.
And we don't have to deal with that sort of stuff because of the fact we don't deal with
the gatekeeper stuff.
So that's kind of the big thing.
Gonna be an interesting future to watch where these guys kind of pull out all the stops
they can.
And that includes things like leaning on the administration for SOPA and all other kinds
of nasty things.
Well, they found that the whole suing people out of existence thing's kind of been a flop.
So they decide, well, you know, it really works, let's make this criminal.
So we'll go and we'll buy us some congressmen because, you know, you just go to the exchange
for that.
And-
Except for during the shutdown.
Except for the shutdown.
Oh, I'm sure.
Yeah, well, they're out panhandling right now.
Oh, they'll still take money, yeah.
Yeah, they are.
They'll still take money, yeah.
Record levels of it, actually.
I'm sure.
It's gonna be a huge unfiltered this week, Matt.
That's actually just one aspect is funding for these guys is at record highs right now.
Anyways.
Wow.
That's crazy.
Well, it's a zero sum game.
You're right.
It's a game that can play it out.
In the meantime, I think, I don't want to say it is our right to pirate.
I just want to say I don't have the biggest moral hang up if somebody's downloading a
television show.
I just-
Exactly.
My preferred solution to this problem, and I know this sounds crazy, but my preferred
solution is just don't watch it.
Right.
There's tons of-
The support content that is not dealing with these games.
Exactly.
You know what that means?
That means I haven't seen Breaking Bad.
And I realize it sounds like it's one of the greatest television shows ever created.
Yeah.
But eventually, somehow, that'll be made available to me in a way that I can consume
it on terms that I'm comfortable with.
And I don't know if that means there's going to be zero DRM, but I do know it means I'm
going to be able to watch it on my Linux box.
Oh, yeah.
No, there's ways of doing that.
But yeah, but there's certainly ways of doing that.
And you kind of have to come to grips with the best way to do it.
Because shows like that, I would love to see something like that on Kickstarter.
But quite honestly, I don't know if we're probably 10 years out from that because of
how deep and how well done it was.
I mean, it's interesting.
The thing we're both dancing around is how Netflix totally changes this whole thing up.
It does.
Because Netflix is sort of the best model where it's like, we're not selling to advertisers.
We just want as many subscribers as possible, so we're going to make the best content possible.
That's right.
The only problem with Netflix, and we both know what it is, is they are, they're assholes
when it comes to Linux.
Linus needs to go give Netflix the middle finger.
But what's ironic about it is the fact that they are supported on Roku, which in theory
is embedded Linux with a little bit of a DRM chip.
And the Boxee Box.
And millions of Android devices.
And they do have most of the Breaking Bad seasons on Netflix now.
Just pointing that out.
You know, screw Silverlight.
Although I just read that they had a job posting that sounded like it was converting some of
their backend systems from Silverlight to something else.
So what they want is they want to have an HTML5 DRM standard.
They want everybody to adopt that, and then they want to start delivering it that way.
They'll call it like Golden Shower or something.
I'm sure they'll have some really great name for it.
They don't realize what they're saying.
I'm sure.
Golden Shower.
Yeah.
Does that come with that Golden Shower DRM?
I'd like to get that Golden Shower DRM.
Wait, no, no, no, not the real, yeah.
All right, Matt.
Well, I think that'll wrap up this week's episode of Linux Unplugged.
Now don't forget we are live on Tuesdays.
Go over to jblive.tv at 2 p.m. on a Tuesday.
Now you could also go to jupiterbroadcasting.com slash calendar.
The calendar will auto-update now with your time zone, or you can manually choose a time
zone.
If you're a Jupyter signal subscriber, dang it, go check your inbox.
A new signal's in there with the artwork from Albert.
Did you see that?
Matt, how great was that?
I did.
That was awesome.
Absolutely.
Absolutely awesome.
As a matter of fact, I shared it on the subreddit.
Yeah, oh, that's right.
You guys can find a link if you want to see it if you didn't get the signal.
Well, Matt, have a great week.
I'll see you on Sunday.
Sounds good.
See you then.
All right, everyone.
Thanks so much for tuning in to this week's episode of Linux Unplugged.
We'll see you right back here next Tuesday.